(bright ambient music)
Alright, so the challenge
was to modify the implementation of Merge Sort
so that it sorts the integers in descending order
and this is the start project
that was in the resources section.
So if we just go ahead and run right now,
we'll see that the Merge Sort is sorting
in ascending order because this is essentially the code
that we did in the Merge Sort video.
We want descending order, so let's go ahead
and look at the code.
Now, the splitting phase doesn't have to change,
I mean all the splitting phase does
is keeps dividing the array into two.
It doesn't care whether you're sorting
in ascending or descending order.
So we don't need to change the Merge Sort method at all.
What we have to change, is the merge step,
because that's the step when we're comparing elements
in the right and left arrays against each other
and writing them in sorted order to a temporary array.
So when we're doing that,
instead of sorting them into ascending order,
we want to sort them into descending order.
So there are two places that we have to change
in this merge method.
The first place is this optimization.
In the Merge Sort video, we went through
what this optimization is doing.
It's essentially checking to see whether you actually
have to do any merging because if this condition
is true when we're sorting in ascending order,
then it means that all the elements in the left array
are less than all the elements in the right array.
And because the left array and right array
are in sorted order, it would mean that
if we copied them to a temporary array,
we'd just end up copying the temporary array
back into the input array and none of the elements,
the positions of none of the elements would change.
This optimization avoids needless work,
but if we're sorting in descending order,
this no longer makes sense.
What we wanna know now, is whether all of the elements
in the left array are greater or equal
to all of the elements in the right array.
Because if that's the case,
then we don't have to do any work.
So our first change here
is going to be greater than or equal.
If all the elements in the left array
are greater than or equal, then all of the elements
in the right array, we don't actually
have to do any merging.
If we were to merge them, we'd just end up
sticking the right array onto the end of the left array
and then we'd have that entire range of elements
sorted in descending order.
Now the second place we have to change
is when we're actually doing a merge,
and we're traversing the left and right partitions
and we're comparing elements in the left array
against elements in the right array.
So here, we're saying that if the element in the left array
is less than or equal to the element in the right array,
then we write the element in the left array
to the temp array.
Obviously, if we're gonna be sorting in descending order,
we want to write the larger of the two elements
into the temp array first,
not the smaller of the two elements.
Once again, we're gonna change
that to greater and equal to.
Now, keeping this equals is extremely important
because Merge Sort is supposed to be a stable sort.
If we have the situation where the element in the left array
is equal to five and the element in the right array
is equal to five, we want the one in the left array
to be written first, because that will preserve
the relative ordering of the duplicates.
We want an equals here, if this was just greater than,
it would result in the element in the right array
being written before the one in the left array
and that would turn Merge Sort into an unstable sort
and we don't want that.
That's it, that's all we have to do
to change this implementation to sort the integers
in descending order.
So let's run, and there you go,
55, 35, 20, seven, one,
15, and -22.
So that was a rather easy one,
just to get us warmed up.
Alright, so let's move on to challenge number two.